Copyright © 2018 by McGraw-Hill Education. All rights reserved. Except as permitted under the United States Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means, or stored in a data-base or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of the publisher.ISBN: 978-1-26-012104-9MHID:       1-26-012104-6The material in this eBook also appears in the print version of this title: ISBN: 978-1-26-012103-2,MHID: 1-26-012103-8.eBook conversion by codeMantraVersion 1.0All trademarks are trademarks of their respective owners. Rather than put a trademark symbol after every occurrence of a trademarked name, we use names in an editorial fashion only, and to the benefit of the trademark owner, with no intention of infringement of the trademark. Where such designations appear in this book, they have been printed with initial caps.McGraw-Hill Education eBooks are available at special quantity discounts to use as premiums and sales promotions or for use in corporate training programs. To contact a representative, please visit the Contact Us page at www.mhprofessional.com.Portions of this book were previously published under the titles of Practice Makes Perfect: Complete French Grammar, Practice Makes Perfect: French Nouns and Their Genders Up Close, Practice Makes Perfect: French Problem Solver, Practice Makes Perfect: French Pronouns and Prepositions, Practice Makes Perfect: French Verb Tenses, Practice Makes Perfect: French Vocabulary, and Practice Makes Perfect: French Sentence Builder.McGraw-Hill Education, the McGraw-Hill Education logo, Practice Makes Perfect, and related trade dress are trademarks or registered trademarks of McGraw-Hill Education and/or its affiliates in the United States and other countries and may not be used without written permission. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. McGraw-Hill Educa-tion is not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book.McGraw-Hill Education Language Lab AppExtensive streaming audio recordings and vocabulary flashcards are available to support your study of this book. Go to mhlanguagelab.com to access the online version of this application or to locate links to the mobile app for iOS and Android devices. (Note: Internet access is required to access audio via the app.)TERMS OF USEThis is a copyrighted work and McGraw-Hill Education and its licensors reserve all rights in and to the work. Use of this work is subject to these terms. Except as permitted under the Copyright Act of 1976 and the right to store and retrieve one copy of the work, you may not decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, reproduce, modify, create derivative works based upon, transmit, distribute, disseminate, sell, publish or sublicense the work or any part of it without McGraw-Hill Educa-tion’s prior consent. You may use the work for your own noncommercial and personal use; any other use of the work is strictly prohibited. Your right to use the work may be terminated if you fail to comply with these terms.THE WORK IS PROVIDED “AS IS.” McGRAW-HILL EDUCATION AND ITS LICENSORS MAKE NO GUARAN-TEES OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE ACCURACY , ADEQUACY OR COMPLETENESS OF OR RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED FROM USING THE WORK, INCLUDING ANY INFORMATION THAT CAN BE ACCESSED THROUGH THE WORK VIA HYPERLINK OR OTHERWISE, AND  EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTY , EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. McGraw-Hill Education and its licensors do not warrant or guarantee that the functions contained in the work will meet your requirements or that its operation will be uninterrupted or error free. Neither McGraw-Hill Education nor its licensors shall be liable to you or anyone else for any inaccuracy, error or omission, regardless of cause, in the work or for any damages resulting therefrom. McGraw-Hill Education has no responsibility for the content of any information accessed through the work. Under no circumstances shall McGraw-Hill Education and/or its licensors be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, punitive, consequential or similar damages that result from the use of or inability to use the work, even if any of them has been advised of the possibility of such damages. This limitation of liability shall apply to any claim or cause whatsoever whether such claim or cause arises in contract, tort or otherwise.vContentsPreface  ix 1 Articles  1  2  Basic gender endings: Masculin and féminin  13  3  More French nouns and their gender  37 4  Numbers  78  5  Vocabulary: Thoughts, feelings, communicating,    home, travel, science, leisure, and technology  87   6  Building sentences  121 7  Asking questions  129 8  Exclamations and commands  149 9  Independent clauses and subordinate clauses  159  10  The present tense of -er verbs  174  11  The present of -ir and -re verbs  186  12  Être, avoir, and other irregular verbs  197  13  The immediate future, the immediate past,    and the causative form  211 14  Pronominal verbs  221  15  The passé composé  227 
i-x_1-284_Heminway.indd   5 5/29/18   9:09 AM vi Contents 16  The imparfait and the plus-que-parfait  237  17  The simple future and the past future  249  18  The present conditional and the past conditional  258  19  Could, should, would?  268  20  The present subjunctive and the past subjunctive  275  21  Prepositions  285 22  The inﬁnitive mood  315  23  The imperative mood  328 24  The present participle and gerund  336  25  The simple past, the passive voice, and indirect speech  343  26  Pronouns  361  27  Relative pronouns  384  28  Adjectives  394  29  Adverbs  406 30  Written French: Making transitions and written    correspondence  415 31  Verb transfers and confusing verbs  434  32  Whatever, whenever, wherever: French oddities and    fun with prepositions  465  33  French in conversation: Meeting people  478 34  French in conversation: Making conversation and    making plans  491 35  French in conversation: Discussing current events  510
i-x_1-284_Heminway.indd   6 5/29/18   9:09 AM Contents vii 36  French in conversation: Asking for help  525 37  A taste of French literature  537Appendix A  French pronunciation  553Appendix B  Grammatical terminology for verbs  557Appendix C  French verb tables  561 Appendix D French-English / English-French glossary  587Answer key 611Translations 641
i-x_1-284_Heminway.indd   7 5/29/18   9:09 AMi-x_1-284_Heminway.indd   8 5/29/18   9:09 AMThis page intentionally left blank ix/T_he idea of a book containing all knowledge is probably as old as literacy. In one of his brilliant short /f_iction collections, /T_he Book of Sand, Jorge Luis Borges describes the paradox of in/f_inity contained between the covers of a book. As every student of French knows, there are always lacunae to /f_ill—lexical, syntactic, orthographic, and so on. Despite any progress, the learner feels not only over-whelmed, but also stuck in quicksand, unable to reach solid ground. However, a solid foundation exists, and its title is Practice Makes Perfect: Complete French All-in-One./T_his book provides a map of the French language—a cartographic represen-tation, as it were—of the Empire of the French language, encompassing seven provinces. What makes this map self-suﬃcient is the fact that it contains numer-ous clues and indications to guide the wanderer through lesser-known, or even unmapped, labyrinths. Distilling the best content from seven Practice Makes Per-fect titles, this book features hand-picked selections from the following:/uni25C6 Practice Makes Perfect: Complete French Grammar may not include every grammatical rule conceivable to man or woman; nevertheless, it provides a general idea of French grammar, which you can use as a compass. /uni25C6 Practice Makes Perfect: French Nouns and /T_heir Genders Up Close enter-tains the quizzical world of French nouns, where words sometimes have two genders or even seem undecided. In this region, you will learn how to detect the correct gender of nouns on the basis of their context. /uni25C6 Practice Makes Perfect: French Vocabulary, relying on its thematic struc-ture, encourages the development of a rich vocabulary by starting from your own particular interests and naturally moving from a familiar con-text to lesser-known /f_ields. /uni25C6 In Practice Makes Perfect: French Sentence Builder, you’ll assume the role of an architect, metaphorically speaking, of course. Nevertheless, you will learn, just as architects do, that a clear conception must precede the work of a building a structure. In this section, as in the others, engaging exercises and examples drawn from real life lead to a mastery of syntactic forms. /uni25C6 It has been said that French prepositions are the Achilles’ heel of highly pro/f_icient French students. Indeed, a wrong preposition can totally de-molish an elegant French speaker’s reputation. However, Practice Makes Perfect: French Pronouns and Prepositions provides a plethora of exercises, based on written French and everyday daily discourse, which will develop an ability to pick the right preposition and to grasp the preposition-pro-noun synergy in French. Preface
i-x_1-284_Heminway.indd   9 5/29/18   9:09 AM x Preface/uni25C6 In the breathtaking province of Practice Makes Perfect: French Verb Tenses, the student learns to perceive time, particularly the past, in a new way. Grammar manuals may de-scribe a tense, but a visit to this province teaches us the inimitable art of modulating tenses, from passé composé to passé simple to imparfait naturally and seamlessly as the narrative unfolds, just as a master of French prose would. /uni25C6 Practice Makes Perfect: French Problem Solver tackles the many conundrums that haunt even the most accomplished learner. For example, a manual of grammar merely describes the dance of pronouns in a sentence with two pronouns; this section strives to explain the dance itself, thus encouraging you to look at what’s behind grammatical rules.• And new to this premium second edition, recordings of the answers to numerous exercises are provided via the McGraw-Hill Education Language Lab app. /T_his streaming audio will help readers improve both listening and speaking skills.
i-x_1-284_Heminway.indd   10 5/29/18   9:09 AM1ArticlesThe deﬁnite article with nounsLet’s /f_irst look at the de/f_inite article. All nouns in French have a gender: masculine or feminine, whether they refer to a person, an animal, a thing, or an abstract notion. While English has only one de/f_inite article the, French uses le for mascu-line nouns and la for feminine nouns. Le and la are shortened to l’ before a singu-lar noun or adjective that begins with a vowel sound. /T_he plural les is used for both masculine and feminine.Masculinele village the villagele pont  the bridgeFemininela ville the cityla région the regionPluralles villages (m.pl.) the villagesles villes (f.pl.) the citiesLe and la become l’ in front of singular nouns starting with a vowel or a mute h.Masculinel’océan the oceanl’ami the friendFemininel’île the islandl’autoroute the highwayOù se trouve le pont Alexandre III? Where is the Alexandre III    bridge?La ville principale est à cent  /T_he main town is a hundred kilomètres d’ici.  kilometers away.Prenez le chemin sur la droite. Take the path on the (your) right.Le réchauﬀement de la planète est  Global warming is the topic of his le sujet de sa conférence.  lecture.Les enfants jouent dans le jardin. /T_he children are playing in the     garden.L’ami de Sonia est japonais. Sonia’s friend is Japanese.·1·
i-x_1-284_Heminway.indd   1 5/29/18   9:09 AM 2 practice makes perfect Complete French All-in-One   VOCABULAIREla terre Earthune planète a planetun pays a countryun continent a continentune capitale a capitalune ville a cityun village a villageune rue a streetune ruelle an alley, a laneune impasse a dead endun plan de la ville a city mapun arrondissement a (city) districtune région a regionune province a provinceun état a stateun royaume a kingdomle désert the desertune frontière a borderune carte a mapune route a roadune autoroute a highwayune côte a coast(line)une plaine a plainune vallée a valleyune montagne a mountainune colline a hillune île an islandun pont a bridgela mer a seaun océan an oceanune rivière a river (tributary)un /f_leuve a river (/f_lowing into    the sea)un ruisseau a brook, a streamle nord northle sud southl’est (m.) eastl’ouest (m.) westun peuple a people, a nationune tribu a tribeautochtone nativeétranger, étrangère foreigninconnu(e) foreign, unknownThe indeﬁnite and partitive articles with nouns/T_he inde/f_inite articles are un (masculine singular) (a), une (feminine singular) (a), and des (both masculine and feminine plural) (some).Masculineun projet a project, a planun bâtiment a buildingun immeuble an apartment buildingFeminineune maison a houseune lampe a lampune avalanche an avalancheune aubergine an eggplantMasculine or feminineun(e) architecte an architectun(e) artiste an artistun(e) journaliste a journalistMasculine and feminine pluraldes murs (m.pl.) (some) wallsdes balcons (m.pl.) (some) balconiesdes fenêtres (f.pl.) (some) windowsdes amis (m.pl.) (some) friends (m.)des amies (f.pl.) (some) friends (f.)Est-ce qu’il y a une piscine? Is there a swimming pool?Elle a acheté un vélo. She bought a bike.
i-x_1-284_Heminway.indd   2 5/29/18   9:09 AM Articles 3Nous avons vu des lapins dans le jardin. We saw (some) rabbits in the garden.Il a acheté des rideaux pour le salon. He bought (some) curtains for the living room.Il a un nouveau chien. He has a new dog.Tu veux emprunter un de mes livres? Do you want to borrow one of my books?The partitive article/T_he partitive article is used when the exact quantity of an item is unknown. In English, the par-titive article is o/f_ten omitted. We say, “I want bread” or “I want some bread.” However, the parti-tive article is always required in French. It is formed by combining de and the de/f_inite article.de /H11001 le /H11005 dude /H11001 l’ /H11005 de l’de /H11001 la /H11005 de lade /H11001 les /H11005 desJe voudrais du pain. I would like some bread.Elle mange du chocolat. She eats chocolate.Nous buvons de l’eau minérale. We drink mineral water.Il achète de la viande. He is buying meat.Elle fait pousser des haricots verts. She grows green beans.When used in the negative, the du, de la, and des all become de, since the quantity of the item doesn’t exist any longer.Ce village a du charme. /T_his village has charm.Ce village n’a pas de charme. /T_his village has no charm.Il prête de l’argent à son ami. He lends money to his friend.Il ne prête pas d’argent à son ami. He does not lend any money to his friend.Elle a des amis à Paris. She has friends in Paris.Elle n’a pas d’amis à Paris. She does not have any friends in Paris.Nous avons des cartes routières. We have road maps.Nous n’avons pas de cartes routières. We do not have any road maps.One exception to this rule is when using the verb être (to be). In the negative, the partitive article is always used with être.C’est du fromage de chèvre. It’s goat cheese.Ce n’est pas du fromage de chèvre. It’s not goat cheese.C’est de la porcelaine. It’s porcelain.Ce n’est pas de la porcelaine. It’s not porcelain.C’est de l’eau potable. It’s drinkable water.Ce n’est pas de l’eau potable. It’s not drinking water.1·1EXERCICE  Compléter avec l’article partitif approprié. 1. Il prend     vacances. 2. Nous mangeons     pain. 3. Elle visite     monuments. 4. Elle a     chance.
i-x_1-284_Heminway.indd   3 5/29/18   9:09 AM 4 practice makes perfect Complete French All-in-One    5. Il met     ail dans la salade. 6. Vous choisissez     cadeaux pour vos amis. 7. Il boit     lait. 8. Nous envoyons     cartes postales en vacances. 9. Tu plantes     légumes.10. Elle veut     crème fraîche.Accent on accents/T_here is an annoying tendency, quite widespread in the English-speaking world, to dismiss French accents as another example of Gallic eccentricity. In fact, there are reference sources, whose publishers shall remain unnamed, containing thousands of titles, without accents, of French-language publications. French accents are a nuisance, these publishers maintain, and what counts is correct spelling. Indeed, but while we’re talking about correct spelling, let us remind the anti- accent crowd that the result of removing a needed accent is a typo.As we shall see, French accents, which by the way have nothing to do with stress, not only indicate the correct pronunciation of a vowel, but also act as semantic markers. For example, con-sider the following two exclamations:Vivre . . .  ou . . .  ?Vivre . . .  où . . .  ?/T_hey may sound the same, but their meaning is completely diﬀerent. /T_he /f_irst phrase, which might remind us of the dilemma expressed in Hamlet’s famous soliloquy, could be translated as: To live . . .  or to . . .  ?Perhaps expressing some confusion, but de/f_initely lacking any sinister overtones, the second phrase means: To live . . .  where . . .  ?Or imagine getting a photograph of a friend at the Louvre Pyramid in Paris. Without the necessary accent, the caption would read:Marie a la pyramide du Louvre./T_his literally means: Marie has the Louvre Pyramid.Without the accent grave, a is the third-person singular of the verb avoir; when we add the accent grave, as in à, we get a preposition! Now you know why people who denigrate French accents are not to be trusted./T_here are four accents in French for vowels and a cedilla for the consonant c. In most cases, their main purpose is to modify the pronunciation of a vowel,  except for the cedilla, of course, which modi/f_ies the pronunciation of a consonant.É/T_he accent aigu (acute accent) ´ is used only with the vowel e, as in été (summer), and it indicates that the vowel should be pronounced as a closed e. /T_hink of the e in the English word bed. Here are other examples:le café coﬀeele céléri celeryle désir desire
i-x_1-284_Heminway.indd   4 5/29/18   9:09 AM